Getting Connected

There are two means for Weather Gauges to get connected to the Internet: via Ethernet or via WiFi.  In the case of Ethernet, provisioning could be
via DHCP, or could be static.  In the case of WiFi, things are slightly more complex: the user must select the country (as frequency bands and
channels are different per country) and band (as the Raspberry Pi's WiFi must match the user's WiFi router).  Here's how we accomplish this:

1.  When we ship the Weather Gauges device, the device.mode file is set to "INITIAL".  This indicates that WiFi is disabled (by rfkill) because we
    don't know what country the user is in, and we don't know what band to use to connect with.  If the user plugs an Ethernet cable in, and if DHCP
    is available, then we'll have an IP address, otherwise not.

    If there is no IP address, then the screen displays page /initial.html:

    a.  The user uses the left and right buttons to select a country.
    b.  The user presses both buttons to advance to band selection.
    c.  The user uses the left and right buttons to select a band.
    d.  The user presses both buttons, selecting the band, setting device.mode to "HOTSPOT" and causing a reboot.
    e.  Upon rebooting, the screen displays page /hotspot.html with instructions for the user to connect to "WeatherGauges.local".
    f.  When the user connects, the default page will be /config.html (see 2, below).

    If there is an IP address, then the screen displays page /connect.html with instructions for the user to connect to the displayed IP address.
    When the user connects, the default page will be /config.html (see 2, below).

2.  The page /connect.html is displayed.  This page allows the user to configure his connection to the Internet, with one of three methods:

    a.  Ethernet automatic: the default if the Raspberry Pi already has an IP address.  There's no other configuration for the user to make, but
        we show the IP address and suggest that if the user knows how, he makes this address permanent on his router.

    b.  Ethernet static: The user configures the IP address, network mask, and router address.

    c.  WiFi: The user configures the country and the band (these will be defaulted if the user chose them in step 1), the SSID of the network to
        connect to, and the WiFi password.

    Once the choices above have been made, the device.mode file will be set to "CONNECT" and the Raspberry Pi will reboot.

3.  If after a reboot the device.mode file is set to "CONNECT", then the selected network configuration will be applied and a test made to see if
    the Raspberry Pi is indeed connected to the Internet.

    a.  If the test succeeds: the device.mode file is set to "CONNECTED" and the /preferences.html page is displayed (see 4 below).

    b.  If the test fails: the /connection_problem.html page is displayed with an explanation.  The user can choose to retry (right button), which
        will go back to step 3.  The user can also choose to reconfigure (left button), which will set the device.mode file to "INITIAL" and go back
        to step 2.  Finally, the user can choose to start over (both buttons), which will set the device.mode file to "INITIAL" and go back to step 1.

4.  If after a reboot the device.mode file is set to "CONNECTED", then the /preferences.html page is displayed.  This page will allow the user to
    configure which weather data vendor to use, what style of data display, and what data to display.  Once the user has finished this, the
    device.mode file will be set to "CONFIGURED", and the normal current data display will be shown.